---
title:  "Creator. How to do it"
tags:   creativity howto productivity life tips dreams
---

It all started with a game, a game on Steam, that captured my thoughts today.
I studied their site and ended up on Patreon. Which one I knew but not really.

I want to create. I believe I'm a creator, but how I can share what I feel and see and do? 
I'm a developer of software, at last it was called like this for how long I remember it.
I solve problems and especially problems with software and use technology. And I see beauty
in architecture, automation and information.
So I know that I don't know what I create in this world and what name does it have.

As it is with a spectrum of technology to use when searching for a solution, it is the same
with media: music/sound/audial, video/photo/view/visual, light, smells, tastes, stories, histories,
 tactile, pain and joy... so much descriptions of different things in our hands to use, to express, to create. 

Then, as it always happens, I started with their docs and the link was on the top:
[10 Tips for Creativity During a Global Pandemic](https://blog.patreon.com/10-tips-for-creativity-during-global-pandemic)
that is quite list to remember and excercise!

List in short:

1. Find your inspiration system
1. Learn smth
1. Coach yourself (...)
1. Wake up in your Dreams
1. Perform on StageIt (!!!)
1. Excercise (!!!)
1. Dance under the bombs
1. Be together
1. Make it raw, not perfect (*)

   > Aim for imperfection. People crave realness right now. Decide to make something, set a timer, and then make it.

   > "Write for the waste basket." (Johnny Mercer)

1. Go for it

   > Embrace constraints and use them as a lever for your creativity.

May I record a song?...

Also an interesting book to read: [A Field Guide to Lucid Dreaming](https://www.workman.com/products/a-field-guide-to-lucid-dreaming).

This evening I read about Polygamous careers as one of the Scott Belsky's [trends of the just started 2022](https://www.businessinsider.com/5-predictions-future-of-tech-society-2021-12).
I feel very close to such application of skills and needs. Let's see how we can get there.
