---
title: "Hack week"
tags: reading, thinking, indecisive
---

Do I have a creativity crysis?

Last week I've finished with two options:
- Learning WebAssembly with some practice at work's project
- Adding WebXR view, again to the work's project

And I decided that I'll choose on Monady which direction to take.

On Monday it didn't work out: I was subconciously avoiding any of these directions
(also having a bad experience on Sunday added to that, I believe). Then I thought
that Unity learning process was making me very energetic and so I'd pick it up
where I left it (two years ago, AFAIR) and just roll on till the end of the week,
and will see what will happen. Then, I stumbled into a [Clarkesworld](http://clarkesworldmagazine.com)'s
discord discussion arouaboutnd **ChatGPT and education** and took some slides
[ChatGPT and Higher Education](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oNaCBDNXCwVfrb8ekWxhiTHvxH-qoTAyfw9LiIiovQA/mobilepresent?slide=id.g11084917917_0_128)
to read. Then, I decided to write down notes in a mind map, and tried to use Figma for that.
I noticed that 2D space could be a limiting factor for mind maps and doing that in VR could be
a better thing. So maybe take Babylon.js and WebXR and make my own mind mapping tool.
Even came oldschool and took some design notes with pen and paper. I did open [Unity learning site](https://learn.unity.com/tutorial/lesson-3-1-jump-force?uv=2021.3&pathwayId=5f7e17e1edbc2a5ec21a20af&missionId=5f7648a4edbc2a5578eb67df&projectId=5cf9639bedbc2a2b1fe1e848#) but didn't restart it yet.

Shit.

## Notes from the slides *ChatGPT and Higher Education*

### Epistemological Luddism

Interesting idea by Langdon Winner, originated back from 1977, when he wrote his book
[*Autonomous Technology Technics-out-of-Control as a Theme in Political Thought*](https://ratical.org/ratville/AoS/AutonomousTechnology.pdf).
**Autonomous technologies** and *"loss of human autonomy to threatening forces brought by science and technology"*. And an
[*Interview with Langdon Winner: Autonomous Technology: Then and Still Now*](https://www.langdonwinner.com/other-writings/2020/11/21/interview-with-langdon-winner-autonomous-technology-then-and-still-now)
in November, 2020.

#### Some quotes from the interview

> As a teacher of budding scientific and technical professionals, I’m again and again struck by how
> little sense of personal autonomy is part of today’s education, our modern **Paideia.**
> Students hope to master the fundamentals of, say, one of the branches of engineering,
> get a **good job,** come up with some lucrative **innovation** and live happily
> ever after. Very often they simply lack any sense that they might reflect upon, talk
> about, and seek to realize an independent, personal understanding of life’s possibilities.
> Thus, the autonomy of technology often comes to the fore when ascertaining
> people’s sense of basic priorities. But the intellectual and moral autonomy of today’s
> students, employees and citizens? Not so much.

and

> In fact, over the years I have asked my students to do the epistemological luddism
> experiment in various university classes. I ask them to identify a technology upon
> which they depend in their everyday comings and goings and to disconnect from it
> for just one week. They should notice what happens, and write down their experiences
> so we can discuss their findings.

and final one:

> My sense is that an incessant series of epistemological luddism experiences will
> likely characterize coming decades of climate emergency. As Earth’s biosphere and
> modernity’s major technological systems enter periods of high stress and breakdown,
> which varieties of understanding, which philosophies, will offer guidance and
> solace? Are we – you and I and world societies overall – any better equipped to
> learn from such episodes today than in earlier times?
> So far the signs are not especially promising. Although there is much excited
> prattle about the wonders of **disruption** – _"Move fast and break things,"_ as they say
> in Silicon Valley – the prevailing worldview is still deeply rooted in beliefs about a
> stable, slowly unfolding, ultimately benevolent continuity. In my view, that’s an
> existential condition to which humanity is no longer entitled.

Some authors, mentioned in the interview, worth checking (I believe):
- Lewis Mumford,
- Jacques Ellul,
- Herbert Marcuse,
- Martin Heidegger,
- Rachel Carson,
- Vance Packard,
- Betty Friedan

### Thoughts and links

- Do you trust this computer, the film [doyoutrustthiscomputer.org](http://doyoutrustthiscomputer.org)
- Langdon Winner, blog at [langdonwinner.com](https://www.langdonwinner.com)
