---
title: "IME Q&A notes 09-12-2024"
tags: sax music course learning jazz standards donna IME
---


1. *Keep time like a pro* (in the bonus) -- check and exercise every day.

2. Reread and rewatch all the pages I needed to read.

3. Need to feel the melody (Blue Monk).

...

4. Listen to Charley Rouse (Dexter Gordon in conc. F)

5. Watch how to internalise the song >> I'm not giving m'self time to hear it in the head

.. first get the note thhat sticks out

.. concept of the resting tone <<<!>>>

6. irealpro: play root notes on chord changes.

------

*Doodling* thing: use *di* instead of *do*, as *di* is better for horn-players, the jaw is moving less (vs. *do*-*da*).

Scats singing (see Donna's comments on Q&A)

------

Billie Jean

------

As horn player -- you're the icing on the cake and too much icing bring sugar problems!

------

We don't want to use our tong as a battle ground to make the notes (???) -- we want the note to come out with breath attack. (Is it for overtones only???)

And before playing the overtone you MUST TO hear the next overtone in your head!!!

It is you, who control the reed, and not the reed controls you. You need to be able to bend pitches. You need to be able to play low notes.

>> Chromatic pitch bends exercise -- to help you control you intonation.

>> Matching pitches exercise (?)

======

My goals for this week are:

Doing all the Monday's comments from Donna:
1. Watch How to Internalize Lesson
2. Check the Resting Tone concept
3. Use Charlie Rouse for transcribing
4. Transcribe measure-by-measure; first hearing in my head until I think I can sing it, then sing it and sing it against the recording to check myself
5. Review CMS Stage 1, get chord sheet (iRealPro) and play root notes agains the original recording
6. Bring more legato articulation to my improvisation on Blue Monk

Plus this:
1. Review Keep time like a pro
2. Recheck all the pages I supposed to have completed
3. Continue Eastman #1 on C scale

------

[Course page with Donna's notes and replay](https://academy.donnaschwartzmusic.com/courses/improvisation-made-easy-elite-group-coaching-program/lessons/dec-2024-qa-sessions-ime-elite/topic/dec-9-2024-qa-ime-elite/?__s=51ceuveknsql2lzu1348&utm_source=drip&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=IME+Elite+-+Q%26A+Replay+%28Dec+9%2C+2024%29)
